The Smarter Project Privacy Policy

1. Information Collection & Use
Unless otherwise agreed in a separate written agreement between you and The Smarter Project ("Smarter"), Smarter is the sole owner of the information collected on our websites. Smarter collects but does not publicly share or disclose personally identifiable information from our users at several different points on our websites.

2. FERPA Statement – Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a Federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools and institutions that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education.
The U.S. Department of Education released changes to FERPA effective December 9, 2008, to provide a more detailed map as educators and administrators navigate through emergency decisions and day-to-day management. Smarter maintains compliance with the FERPA laws on each of the points below.

3. Registration
In order to use our online products, and unless this was done for you by Smarter administrators, you must first complete a registration form on our website and possibly create a password. Smarter will use your email address as your login name. During the registration process for Smarter products, you may be required to give personal information (such as your name, your educational institution, your date of birth, your student ID, your phone number, and/or your email address).
We ask customers who register with us to provide us with their email address in order to (1) complete the registration of your copy of our product, (2) enable us to send you information as described below, (3) so we can verify your role in a course as either a registered student or as the instructor, (4) respond to your technical support questions. We may also send you a "Welcome" email message after you register.
Passwords are encrypted at the moment of persistence and are stored in this encrypted format. We do NOT distribute passwords to anyone except (1) an educational institution that purchases Smarter products on their student's behalf, or (2) to an outside service provider if the password is strictly necessary to provide the products and services you have purchased. If you forget your password, you can reset it from your computer. If you forget your user name, you can contact Smarter Technical Support: support@tsp.com. You may not share your password. You are responsible for protecting the security and confidentiality of your password except solely when it is in our possession and control.
We may require your telephone number so that we can contact you if there is a problem with delivering emails to you regarding your technical support requests. We do not disclose your telephone number to third parties other than our own service providers. We do not use your telephone number for any marketing purposes.

4. Surveys or Contests
From time to time we may provide you the opportunity to participate in contests or surveys on our site. If you participate, we will request certain personally identifiable information from you. Participation in these surveys or contests is completely voluntary and you, therefore, have a choice whether or not to disclose this information. The requested information typically includes contact information (such as name and shipping address), and demographic information (such as zip code).
We use survey information to improve our products and services and to plan for future product features. We use your personal information to notify contest winners and award prizes and to personalize offers that you elect to receive from us.
We may use a third-party service provider to conduct these surveys or contests; that third-party provider will be prohibited from using our user's personally identifiable information for any other purpose. We will not share the personally identifiable information you provide through a contest or survey with other third parties unless we give you prior notice and the opportunity to opt-out.

5. Test Administration
In the event that you use our products or services in connection with your enrollment at a school where the use of our products is required, by using such product or services you agree and consent to the following:
We may store and share with your school or its authorized representatives any and all information related to you, including, but not limited to, information about your progress through our materials, all personally identifiable information related to you, which information you viewed, and the results of any assessment questions you complete.
We have no control over a school's use of any personal information provided to such school by us, and Smarter shall have no liability related to a school's use or misuse of any information provided to such school by us.
In the event that we are provided with information relating to a student by an educational agency or institution and such student or parent of such student desires to obtain such information pursuant to FERPA, all requests for disclosure of such information by the student or such student's parents should be directed to the applicable educational agency or institution.
We may use your information to send you progress reminder emails if you choose to receive these.

6. Text Messages
If you choose to be notified by Text Message (SMS), we will send you occasional text messages to remind you to prepare for tests. Depending on your carrier's phone plan, you may be charged by your carrier for these text messages. You must Opt-In to receive a Text Message from this website.

7. Collection and Use of Children's Personal Information
Our website and our products are intended for general audiences. Our website and our products are NOT directed to children under the age of 13, and we do not knowingly collect any personal information from children under the age of 13. When parental consent is required, failure to provide the parental consent shall result in the refusal of services requested by such a child. We will not knowingly ask children under the age of 13 to provide more information than is reasonably necessary to provide our services. Parents can change or revoke the consent choices previously made by contacting us as described below, and reviewing, editing, or requesting the deletion of their children's personal information by emailing us at support@smarter.sh. In the event of the revocation of consent or the deletion of the child's personal information, we may terminate any service provided to the child if the information at issue is reasonably necessary for the child's use of our products or services.
Please note that if you grant consent for your child to provide us with personal information, this may include the child's name, address, educational institution, telephone number, and email address. This information will be used to deliver our products and services to your child and may potentially be made publicly available through the child's use of discussion forums or blogs. We will also collect cookies from your child. A more detailed discussion of our use of cookies may be found below.
For issues regarding the collection or maintenance of children's personal information, please contact us using the contact information below.

8. Communications from Smarter
a. Special Offers and Updates
We will occasionally send you information on products, services, special deals, and promotions. You can sign up to receive these emails from us on our website and product registration pages. Out of respect for your privacy, we present the option not to receive these types of communications. Please see the Choice/Opt-Out section.
b. Service-related Announcements
We may send you service-related announcements. For instance, if our service is temporarily suspended for maintenance, we might send you an email. Generally, you may not opt out of these communications, which are not promotional in nature. If you do not wish to receive them, you have the option to deactivate your account.
c. Customer Service
Based on the personally identifiable information you provide us, we will send you a welcome email to verify your username and password. We will also communicate with you in response to your inquiries, to provide the services you request, and manage your account. We will normally communicate with you by email but may contact you by telephone to obtain a new email address if we believe that the email address we have in our records is no longer active.

9. Profile
We store information that we collect through cookies and log files to create a "profile" of your preferences. We tie your personally identifiable information to information in the profile in order to provide tailored promotions and marketing offers, improve the content of the site for you, and report on your progress to your educational institution (if any).

10. Information Sharing and Disclosure
Except as provided herein and to implement the information uses described in this Privacy Policy, Smarter never sells, rents, or lends email addresses or other personally-identifiable information or profiles of users to another organization.

11. Aggregate Information (non-personally identifiable)
We share aggregated demographic information about our user base with other companies who market our products or who incorporate our educational content into their products or services. This information does not identify individual users.
We do not link aggregated user data with personally identifiable information.

12. Personally identifiable information
We share Personally Identifiable Information with Third Parties who act as our agents or service providers, solely for delivering the products and services you purchase, to deliver email messages containing service-related announcements (such as scheduled website maintenance) that you generally may not opt out from receiving. We may also deliver remarketing-related email messages that you may choose to opt out from receiving. Our agreements with these third parties include prohibitions against the third party using any personally identifiable information for any purpose other than those described here.

13. Email Service Providers
We may use other third parties to provide email list management and email delivery services for our messages sent to you. We will share your name and email address as necessary for the third party solely to provide those authorized services. These third parties are prohibited from using your personally identifiable information for any other purpose.
We reserve the right to disclose your personally identifiable information as required by law and when we believe that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights; investigate or prevent fraud, illegal activities, or breach of our terms and conditions of use; and/or to comply with a judicial proceeding, government investigation, court order, or legal process served on our Website.

14. Choice/Opt-out
We provide you with the opportunity to "opt out" from receiving email messages from Smarter.
For example, if you purchase a product/service but do not wish to receive any additional communication from us. If you no longer wish to receive our e-mails, you may opt-out of receiving them by following the instructions included in each communication or by emailing us at support@smarter.sh. You may also opt out by writing to us at:
OpenCogent LLC
Attention: Customer Support
21 Remedios Road
Lamy, NM USA 87540

15. Log Files
As is true of most Websites, we gather certain information automatically and store it in log files. This information includes internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, internet service provider (ISP), referring/exit pages, operating system, date/time stamp, and clickstream data.
We use this information, which does not identify individual users, to analyze trends, administer the site, track users’ movements around the site, and gather demographic information about our user base as a whole.
We may link IP addresses to personally identifiable information in order to detect and track possible fraudulent use of our products or violation of our copyrights.

16. Cookies
We use a third-party tracking service called Google Analytics that uses cookies to track non-personally identifiable information about visitors to our site in the aggregate so that we may understand and improve our website and our product offerings.
A cookie is a small text file stored on a user’s computer for record-keeping purposes. We use cookies on this site to maintain user session identification information. This information is not personally identifiable information. However, we do link the information we store in cookies to any personally identifiable information you submit while on our site so that we may identify a particular user as they use the features of our products such as prompt engineering tools and API deployment tools, for example, so we may report student progress to course instructors or to homeschool parents.
We may use either session ID cookies or persistent cookies. A session ID cookie expires in short, predetermined periods, typically a day, a week, or 2 weeks. A persistent cookie remains on your hard drive for this extended period of time. We use session cookies to allow users to remain authenticated to our website when using our services and products, and to maintain unsaved prompt engineering work-in-progress.
If you reject cookies in your web browser, you will not be able to authenticate to our website, nor register for the use of our products purchased at a university bookstore, or use the website-based products and services you purchase. You will need to enable cookies for our website in order to register and use our online products and services.

17. Clear Gifs (Web Beacons)
Smarter may employ a software technology called clear gifs (a.k.a. Web Beacons), that help us better manage the content of our email newsletters and marketing offers by informing us what content is effective. Clear gifs are tiny graphics with a unique identifier, similar in function to cookies, and are used to track which messages are read by the subscribers to our email messages. In contrast to cookies, which are stored on a user's computer hard drive, clear gifs are embedded invisibly in email messages and are about the size of the period at the end of this sentence.
We do not tie the information gathered by clear gifs to our customer's personally identifiable information.
We may use clear gifs in our HTML-based emails to let us know which emails recipients have opened. This allows us to gauge the effectiveness of certain email communications and the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns. If you would like to opt out of these emails, please see Choice/Opt-Out above.

18. Third Party Advertisers
Our websites and email sent to you from Smarter do not currently contain third-party, paid advertising of any kind, but may do so in the future.

19. Links to Other Sites
The website for our products contains links to other sites that are not owned or controlled by Smarter, including a website for educational institutions. Please be aware that we, OpenCogent LLC, are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites.
We encourage you to be aware when you leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every Website that collects personally identifiable information.
This privacy statement applies only to information collected by this Website.

20. Access to Personally Identifiable Information
If your Personally Identifiable Information changes, you may update this information by accessing your Account. If you no longer desire to use the services of our website, you no longer wish to receive communications from Smarter, or if you wish us to delete your information from our records, you may also email your request to our Customer Support staff at support@smarter.sh or by making your request using any of the methods described above under Choice/Opt-Out.

21. Security
We follow generally accepted industry standards designed to protect the personal information of the nature submitted to us, both during transmission and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, while we strive to use commercially reasonable means to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee its security.
OPENCOGENT LLC MAKES NO WARRANTIES AS TO THE SECURITY OF YOUR DATA COMMUNICATIONS, OR THAT THIRD PARTIES WILL NOT GAIN UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO OR MONITOR YOUR COMPUTER(S) OR YOUR ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS. YOU AGREE THAT OPENCOGENT LLC WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SUCH ACCESS.
If you have any questions about security on our Website, you can email us at support@smarter.sh.

22. Business Transitions
In the event OpenCogent LLC goes through a business transition, such as a merger, acquisition by another company, or sale of all or a portion of its assets, your personally identifiable information will likely be among the assets transferred. You may be notified via email of any such change in ownership or control of your personal information.

23. Changes in this Privacy Statement
We reserve the right to modify this privacy statement at any time, so please review it frequently. If we make material changes to this policy, we will notify you here, by email, or by means of a notice on our home page.

24. Contact Us
If you have any questions or suggestions regarding our privacy policy, please contact us by any of these methods:
Email: support@smarter.sh
Phone: 1 617 834-6172
Mail:
OpenCogent LLC
Attention: Customer Support
21 Remedios Road
Lamy, NM 87540
